Hello everyone, my name is Abhishek and
welcome back to my channel. Just tell me
something honestly. How many of you have
this question? Abishek, I'm working as a
DevOps instant but I'm not sure how to
start using AI as part of my day-to-day
activities and I'm not sure where to get
started from. Let me tell you this is a
very valid question and fortunately you
are watching the right video because in
today's video I'll tell you the exact
road map that you have to follow to
start using AI as part of your
day-to-day activities. This is going to
be a sevenstep road map and trust me
after completing this road map you will
be very confident about AI. So without
wasting any time let's get started.
The first thing that you have to do is
start with prompt in scenario.
This is one of the things that is mostly
ignored these days. But irrespective of
your field, it can be DevOps,
development, everyone has to focus on
this skill and fortunately this just
takes two to three hours not more than
that. Now let me tell you why is this
important.
Take two engineers working with the same
tool. It can be chat GBD or it can be
GitHub copilot claude. One gets the
expected response but the other one does
not get what they're looking for and
most of the times they end up blaming AI
that you know AI is not good enough in
giving the expected response but you
know what is the culprit? The culprit is
prompt.
So in today's world, everyone has to
know how to interact with AI and that
interaction depends on the prompt
engineering skill.
In our AI DevOps playlist, I have
already covered prompt engineering. So
whatever I'm going to explain in this
video, they are already covered on our
channel. So you don't have to worry
where to go, you know, how to learn
these skills. Just focus on the skills
while I'm explaining them. So the first
one is prompt in scenario. You should at
least know what is oneshot prompting.
You should know what is nshot prompting
and within your prompt how you can give
some examples to get expected response
from the model. And as I told you this
will only take two to three hours for
you not more than that. Initially start
with chat GBD. So once you learn the
prompting skill, you can verify that by
using those prompts on the chat GPT and
then comes your second step. Test your
prompt engineering skills on the local
models because if you try with the
production models like anthropic models
or open AI models, they are expensive.
You cannot you know validate your
prompts on those models. But what you
can do, you can run the models locally
and test the prompts. To run the models,
you need to know,
you need to know hugging face and docker
model runner. That's it. Just these
three concepts and you're good enough.
Once again, you know, I'm telling this
for one last time in the video. Whatever
I'm going to cover, it can be the skills
or it can be the tools, they are already
covered in the A assistant DevOps
playlist on the channel. So, they are
available for free of cost for you.
Now, you might say, but Abishek, apart
from prompting, is there any real
advantage of learning how to run the
models locally? This will hardly take
one to two hours for you. And by
learning this thing you can be up to
date in the market because if you look
at the latest advancement in the space
of AI for example open claw it can work
with the local models. Take Olama the
support for Olama is significantly
increasing. Just two days back exactly
two days back Visual Studio Code
announced the support to Ola directly
using GitHub copilot. So if you have a
powerful model running on your machine
using visual studio code and Olama you
can directly get ID capabilities and
agent capabilities within your visual
studio code for free of cost and going
ahead the models are going to become
very very light. Recently GGUF models
they can run on the CPU as well. And
going ahead you will find small language
models with maybe 500 million
parameters, 400 million parameters which
will be easy to run on any laptop. So
definitely learn this skill. This will
only take 1 to two hours for you. There
are only three tools that you have to
learn. Olama, hugging face, TMR, modern
runner.
Then once you're done with this, go to
the next step. Okay, learn how to run
the models locally. Experiment with the
prompting that you have learned to see
from the local models if you can get the
expected response and then start making
API calls to the cloud models. What are
cloud models? The proprietary models of
OpenAI or Anthropic. learn within your
Python scripting how you can make API
calls to these models to get whatever
response that you are expecting.
Why? Because at this point of time,
these are the most powerful models. I'll
give you a simple use case. Let's say
your management asks you as a DevOps
finisher. They ask you to automate
something. Whenever know developer
provides the source code maybe a simple
application they have to execute your
Python script and this Python script
should generate docker file for the
application. This should be an automatic
process. How will you do it? There are
so many programming languages. There are
so many use cases. The best way to do it
write a Python script and within the
Python script using API call create a
prompt and make an API call to the let's
say open AI model and this model will
return the docker file for you and you
can return this docker file as the
output of your Python script to the
developer. So to automate such things
which are going to become very very
common as you move forward in your role,
you need to learn how to make API calls
to the cloud models. Right? So again
this is not very difficult. If you're
using shell scripting, you just need to
know how to use curl. If you're using
Python scripting, you just need to know
how to use some Python packages, right?
and how these Python packages can make
the API calls they are also available on
our playlist.
Then the fourth thing. Okay. So till now
I covered about prompt engineering. This
is the first skill that you have to
learn. Then running the models locally.
Then using the cloud models through the
API calls within your scripting. This
can automate a lot of use cases for you.
And fourth one you need to learn about
AI agents. Now whenever I say a agents
or whenever you hear about this term you
feel this is rocket science but this has
become very very easy today you don't
need to learn lang chain or you don't
need to learn lang graph there are some
frameworks like crew AI
very very powerful framework within 15
minutes you can develop your first AI
agent everything to prompting and
manifest files. Of course, little bit
Python scripting but most of it is with
the prompting and the manifest files. So
using crew you can get the boiler plate
within the boiler plate just modify the
prompt just modify the manifest and you
have your AI agent ready by AI agent
let's say you want to automate the pod
failure analysis right very simple and
repetitive task within your organization
you must have seen a pod goes down very
very frequently every time developer
creates a support request to you trying
to or me messages on Slack asking what
is the reason for the pod failure.
Instead, you can develop an AI agent and
deploy that to the Kubernetes cluster
and the developer can directly interact
with the agent in the Kubernetes cluster
or even you can uh automate this using
the slack. So you just send uh
Kubernetes
or you just tell the AI agent
drop an email, right? As simple as that.
Whenever there is a pod failure, this
agent should analyze the part failure
and send an email. To do these kind of
things, you need to learn AI agents and
the best framework is crew AI. Fine.
Then the fifth thing, the fifth thing is
to learn workflow automation platforms.
For example, NAL or workflow automation
platform like Simai.
SIMA is open source. It is free of cost.
NAN is also free of cost. I mean to just
get started, you can start with these
platforms. I'll give you a use case here
as well. Let's say you are working on a
CI/CD pipeline and on every pull request
you run multiple stages in the CI/CD
pipeline.
But now you want to incorporate AI as
one of the stage in the CI/CD pipeline.
Let's say AI to analyze any security
issues in the pull request. Now, how
would you achieve this? You need AI in
this workflow. What you can do? You can
incorporate NA or SIM AI as part of this
workflow. In fact, you can build this
entire workflow using Cai or NAN as
well. This is the recent video on the
channel. I explained how you can bring
SI CI to dev sec ops pipeline. So if you
want you can watch that video or you can
go through the documentation as well.
Everything is available on the channel.
Finally
you need to know once you once you have
mastered the workflow automation
platforms
just learn AI ops as a skill.
What is AI ops? Just introducing
observability
with AI. Right? If you already have an
observability solution, just adding AI
within the observability is called as AI
ops. For example,
with the existing observability system
within your organization, you can
definitely send alerts when something
goes wrong, you can configure a
threshold and once the threshold is met
through the alert, you can configure
mail notification.
You can do it today. But what if there
is some hidden pattern within your
metrics? Let's say there is a sudden CPU
spike from 20 to 60 and your alert is
configured for 70 CPU utilization.
Okay, this is something that you have to
worry about because there is a sudden
spike from 20 to 16. Tomorrow this can
go from 20 to 100 as well. But your
existing observability platform or the
stack cannot actually notify about you
about these things. Whereas if you have
a ops configured it can detect these
kind of anomalies and instantly notify
you. So you have to learn a ops if you
are a devops engineer or s sur. There
are a lot of other use cases. I'm just
talking about a very basic use case. And
how would you learn AOPS?
This is the most easiest things to learn
because today every observability
platform. If you're already working as a
DevOps engineer, if there is
observability stack within your
organization,
it's most likely there is already AOPS
plug-in that your platform supports. If
you're using graphana, aops is
supported. If you're using data dog,
dino trace, site 24x7, ground cover, all
of them have observability aop
solutions,
they are available as plugins. Maybe
your organization hasn't enabled the
plug-in. As DevOps engineer, you can
just enable the plug-in in the lower
environment. You can perform a proof of
concept and then convince your
management to get a ops in production.
Finally, one last thing that you have to
do is keep yourself up to date. Now, all
the things that I have explained here,
it can be a ops, it can be workflow
automation, AI agents, API calls, local
model, prompt engineering. These are
some skills that you have to learn. But
to keep yourself up to date, you have to
build a discipline. every day just 15
minutes start reading about things that
are happening in the space of AI for
example recent advancements like open
clock
you will come to know about these kind
of things if you are active on LinkedIn
if you are active on some blogging
platforms if you subscribe to the right
YouTube channels where those creators
talk about the advancements in the space
of AI or maybe as I told you the local
models today they support with VS code
using Olama even these kind of things
you will only know if you are
subscribing to the right content so keep
yourself up to date just spend 15 to 30
minutes a day and you are good finally
I'll repeat the things that you have to
learn and how much time would it take
prompt engineering is the first thing
that you have to learn it would take 2
to 3 hours for you local models hardly 1
to two hours because there are only
three things that you have to learn.
Olama, hugging face, do local model run.
Then how to make API calls to the cloud
provider. If you know shell scripting
and python scripting again this would
take two to three hours for you because
there are things that you have to learn
like how to configure the temperature
not the temperature uh in the usual
terms but there is again something in
the
models or the tokens ecosystem. So you
need to know how to use tokens
effectively, how to configure the
temperature, how to get response, right?
How to curate your prompts. So this
would take 2 to three hours if you know
shell and python scripting. Then the AI
agents, the crew AI, this would take
another two to three hours for you to
master. Nentai,
this would take little time. Maybe you
need half day or one day to learn how to
use nit and cmai as part of your
workflow. If you're talking an point of
view, you might take 7 to 8 hours to
master this concept.
AOPS as a solution,
this would take 2 to three days for you
because first you have to understand the
concept, then you have to understand how
AOPS can be implemented. Then you have
to go to an enterprise platform and
learn a ops through that platform
keeping yourself up to date every day 15
minutes. So this is a clear road map. If
you want to transition to a assisted
DevOps role or AI DevOps engineering
role, if you have any questions about
it, do let me know in the comment
section. I'm more than happy to let you
know. And if you like the video, please
share it within your network because
these videos can really make a shift in
the DevOps engineer career. See you all
in the next video. Take care.